>> Kyle Simpson: So
let's get into converting of types.
Let's talk about how we
go from one to another.
And I just want to point out that this
is absolutely necessary in all programs.
All languages, all programs you have
to convert from one type to another.
It would be total nonsense to consider
a program that never needed to go
from a number to a string or vice-versa.
You can't do anything hardly useful
whatsoever without some type of type
conversion.
And in a dynamically typed language
like JavaScript the way we do that is
called coercion.
So if I start out with msg1 that's
got this sentence fragment and
then I have a numStudents
which is a number and
then msg2 which is another character
string, another string segment.
And I want to put all three of
those together into a message.
In this case,
I'm going to print it to the console.
But I might want to render it to the page,
or write it to a file or a database or
something.
Well, you have a problem.
Because we've got two strings on
either side, and a number in between.
And the only way that you can get
that number into that string is for
the number to be converted to be coerced
into a string representation of itself.
The good news is that numeric coercion,
or string conversion of a number,
going from a number to a string,
that's pretty well thought of.
I mean,
there's not much complexity around that.
If you have a valid number, and
then you turn that into a string,
it's probably gonna
look exactly like that.
There are a few little corner cases,
with really, really giant numbers,
that it may end up having
the exponentiation form or something.
But most numbers that you work with, the
number 42 or the number 3.14 or whatever,
the string form is going to look
exactly like what you might expect.
And there's further ways that you can
control if you had a number with 15
decimal places after it and
you wanted to truncate it to
two relevant decimal places.
There's methods for that,
the two fix method, for example.
But the point is that 16 here has
to get converted to a string so
that the plus operator on line 4 can
concatenate three strings together.
The string concatenation that's happening
here is essentially an implicit coercion
of that number to a string.
And some people like implicit coercion.
Some people really don't
like implicit coercion.
I'm not going to pass a value judgment
on which one is right or wrong here.
But I just wanna point out that we
are assuming something about the plus
operator here, which is that it'll go
ahead and convert, coerce it for us.
And sometimes it might be more preferable
to be explicit and tell it, no, no,
no, I really want you
to convert the string.
So that plus operator is overloaded with
some behavior that if at least one of
the things that we're dealing with in
the operation is already a string,
it's going to prefer string concatenation.
Now you notice here on line 4, I've
got the back tick form of that string,
which is basically doing kind of
the same thing as what we did before.
It's just interpolating the value in and
notice on line 4 I have
a plus with an empty quote.
You may have seen that in JavaScript,
this is an extremely common,
idiomatic way of converting something to
a string by adding the empty string to it.
And again, we're taking advantage of the
fact that the plus operator is overloaded,
that if at least one side
of it's already a string,
everything else is gonna become a string.
And it only does numeric math
if both of them are numbers.
So this is another way of
implicitly coercing to a string.
Basically, the pattern that we're
looking at here with this plus operator
overloading is that the only time it
does math is when you have a number
and a number.
Any other time, number string,
string number or string string,
you're gonna end up with
string concatenation.
And it's kind of a regrettable choice to
have this overloading of the operator, but
it is our reality in JavaScript.
So you just have to get in your head,
if you want the mathematic addition,
you've gotta make sure that
both of them are numbers.
Now, if I take this addAStudent function
that I've defined here on line 1,
and it's expecting to be able to
say + 1 to a thing that we have.
We know that the plus operator is
susceptible to this type conversion
problem or
this overloading of types problem.
And so when we pass in something to
the addAStudent we need to make sure
that it's gonna get treated as a number.
If I pull a value off of some DOM element,
the way I'm doing here on line 6,
it's going to come in as a string.
Even though somebody typed the number
16 into an input box on a page,
when we get it into our
JavaScript program,
it's gonna be a string because all
value properties have strings.
And if we wanna do math with it,
we're gonna have to convert.
And that's what the number
function is doing here on line 6.
It is converting from
a string to a number.
And again, remember,
there's no new keyword here.
Notice that there's no new keyword.
We're just calling the function to
convert it from a string to a number.
By the way,
number can be used with any value.
So you can convert a boolean to a number,
you can convert a string to a number.
Anything that can validly be
converted to a number, you can do so
with this number function.